Adam Karl
9/6/2020
1. Tha aspect of my identity I think about the least is nation of origin, altough geographic location is pretty closely related. While I understand that the country you're born in has an impact on what the culture is and what laws exist, I just find it pretty silly to be either proud or ashamed of the country you happen to be born in.
2. I think about social class the most. Recently I've been thinking a lot about how money dictates cultural and social norms and seems to be at the root of most if not all of life's problems.
3. I have a first language of English in common with all my close friends. I think it's just a product of the semi-confined social bubble I've been in.
4. Religious/spiritual affiliation has the strongest effect on how I percieve myself, as it's the only one on this list that's changed (other than age) during the course of my life, so it really feels like my identity and not just my parents'.
5. As I'm not a minority in language or race, I feel like body size/type is the other big thing that makes a first impression on people just at a glance.
6. Social class is again the thing I'd like to learn more about myself, or at least examine why I've taken for granted the lifestyle that my parents gave me.
7. I suppose I feel the most judged by age, having just turned 25 and still finishing my degree I could definitely see people juddging me as "behind the curve" wtih regards to where I should be in my career.
8. In class, I feel a bit uncomfortable being 25 finishing school with (for first-year classes) 18 year olds. It's less uncomfortable in classes with other upperclassmen where I don't feel out of place.
9. I suppose I think about body type and religious affiliation the most, because they're the only things that have changed over my life.
10. Honestly I don't feel particularly proud or ashamed of any of my social identities, the same way I'm kind of indifferent about my name. They're just facts that don't have any real meaning until they're contrasted against someone else's experiences (I do recognise that this kind of attitude probably comes from a place of privilege, but it's honest).

1. Some of the social identities I give virtually no thought to, but it's still important to self-reflect on the things we take for granted sometimes.
2. Although I don't think about my social identities all that much, they might be more important to other people, and all experiences are different.
