Adam Karl

“Science, in its most fundamental definition, is a fruitful mode of inquiry, not a list of enticing conclusions. The conclusions are the consequence, not the essence.”- Stephen Jay Gould

What if we replace “science” in the above quote with “writing”? For this essay, I’d like you to start by considering how writing might serve as a potential “mode of inquiry” for you, a process of exploration and discovery that (potentially) “expands outward” to further engage you (and your reader) in more than just the fulfilling of an assignment or the completion of a requirement. Looking back at the essays we’ve read, discussed, and written about, see if you can find examples in at least three of these pieces that serve as potential models, examples which illustrate or suggest ways to find a “mode of inquiry” that will enable the sort of productive writing process Gould is arguing for in science. How are those writers teaching you (or showing you) novel approaches to writing? What are they suggesting as the reason(s) for doing so? How do these lessons compare to your previous experience(s) with writing? What, specifically, might you change, alter, or revise in your approach, if you follow their example? After you’ve tried to answer these questions, write an essay that explains how the writers/essays you’ve referenced might allow you to adopt a revised approach to writing where “conclusions are the consequence, not the essence” and seeing writing as “inquiry” can possibly lead to a more enlightened future.


essence: the intrinsic nature of indispensable qulity of something, especially something abstract, that determines its character

Every time I stumble upon the word "essence," I think of tuna sandwiches.




I've always considered the analysis of a piece separate from writing about it.





Whenever I do anything that takes a substantial amount of time I have a nasty habit of constantly assessing what the point is, and writing anything longer than a short answer inevitably takes me a magnitude of time longer than I expect it to.

"Into the Woods"

  I'm writing this essay to get a decent grade to maintain a high GPA to have a to get an interview to land a job that can feed clothe and shelter me while being as enjoyable (or at least as painless aspossible). 

I'm writing to stay alive. But of course that's ridiculous
There's not masked sith lord ready to force-choke me to death at the first sign of failure. So maybe the stakes aren't quite that high. More likely, an essay keeps me alive about as much as actually waiting for the cross walk to let me know that it is indeed, finally time to cross atwood st. (light sign is on the cross)
----placing a bad tetris piece
