8/30
"Girl" by Jamaica Kincaid
1. The girl is growing up in a culture seemingly obsessed with traditional gender roles and conservative values, constantly warning the girl about appearing like a slut for the most innocent infractions. Although the speaker only seems to speak in her *true voice* twice during the italic sections, the first section "but I don't sing benna on Sundays at all and never in Sunday school" outs her as only mildly displeased with the actual values being enforced (she still refrains from singing suggestive songs on Sundays), but more upset with the constant ordering and nagging that comes with those values. Kincaid's form consists of a constant barrage of insults and commands (likely from her mother) with little punctuation other than a semicolon between sentences. With the entire passage being a single paragraph, the reader is completely swept away by a flow of things the girl cannot or should not do. It's difficult to pinpoint exactly what the girl is thinking or what Kincaid's ultimate purpose is since the main character barely has a voice, but the constant hammering of what's wrong with the girl is certainly seen as a negative, and the reader is free to fill the narrative void with their own interpretations. Personally, I see this piece as a rejection of the notion that every person should morph into some idealized version of what society expects them to be; here a form of the mid-20th century housewife.

8/31
"Girl" contd.
2. 
this is how to find the product bin; this is how you find the matching product in the bin; this is how to scan the bin barcode; this is how to scan the product SKU; this is where to send it down the line to shipping; search; scan; send; search; scan; send; okay now just do that eighty-seven times an hour until you can leave; search; eighty-seven times ten is eight hundred seventy; carry the bins to the end; send; everyone thinks they can slack off just because the company is moving and everyone is getting laid off soon; scan; bell rings; send; walk to lunch; ohbythewaytheyextendedmandatoryovertimeagain; bell rings, return from lunch; only five more months; scan; try not to think about killing yourself; search; cry in the bathroom; scan; again; again; finally time to go home; home; you can't skip therapy again; it's all in your head; take these pills; *well, yeah, where else would mental illness be*; drive to therapy; don't make friends with *those* people, they'rebrokenpeople; don't play video games with your friends; games are just timewasters; *I'm broken people*; apply for college; you can't afford college; you need to make more money; we just want the best for you; go to sleep you're working ten hours again tomorrow; again tomorrow

Imitating Kincaid allowed me to condense all of the (often contradicting) complaints and demands into a form that matched my state of mind at the time. I went for an approach that used different speakers at work and at home, as well as a more internal voice, but I'm not sure how well it came across. I think if I did a rewrite I'd focus more on just one voice and flesh it out more dynamically. 
Although my version didn't focus on education specifically, the biggest theme I though about when writing was how different environments and having a lot of insults or unhelpful words spoken at you can influence your thoughts and inner monologue and lead to negative self-talk.

9/6
"Between the World and Me" by Ta-Nahisi Coates
1. Since the focus of Coates' passage is the vast separation between his young life in Baltimore and the life of someone growing up in present day, he risks very little by framing his past as a world separated almost entirely from both the present and from any semblance of safety and security. The prompt includes the quote: "Somewhere out there beyond the firmament, past the asteroid belt, there were other worlds where children did not regularly fear for their bodies." I'm glad this quote was used in the prompt because it was certainly the most memorable part of the passage for me upon first reading. I took it literally the first time, and imagined alien life on other worlds and pondered if they have similar versions of institutionalized racism or animosity between social classes. Then, upon realizing Coates only meant that safety felt galaxies away I read the sentence again, an it cemented the feeling of isolation and desparate helplessness Coates felt while just trying to survive Baltimore.
When learning French in school, Coates writes: "France was a rock rotating in another galaxy, around another sun, in another sky that I would never cross. Why, precisely, was I sitting in this classrooom?" Picking back up the extended metaphor of his experiences being light-years away from civilization and safety, this sentence really resonated with me. My middle school regularly sent students taking French to Quebec to talk to native speakers and learn some of the culture. I didn't take French, but this sentence made me consider an aspect of my privilege that I'd never really examined before; a chance to travel to learn French and travel to Quebec was something I had taken for granted so much that I turned it down just to learn another language, while many people might never have a chance for an experience like that.
Near the end of the passage Coates describes growing up in Baltimore in terms more akin to a septic battlefield. He writes: "The ground we walked was trip-wired. The air we breathed was toxic. the water stunted our growth." Again, obviously none of these statements are literal, but the metaphor instead provides the reader with an alternative view of life on the streets. Here, rather than feeling a galaxy away from safety and security, Coates draws the reader into the feeling of anxiety that comes with constantly fearing for your life, much like a war in the trenches.

2. 
  While reading the passage without this knowledge I'll admit I felt a bit uncomfortable about the number of assumptions about my life and beliefs that Coates seemed to make. When I though the piece was directed at me, the parts that weren't perfect matches with my experiences felt like flaws or accusations. For instance, "You have some acquaintance with the old rules, but they are not as essential to you as they were to me." However, when the piece is directed at Coates' son, it instead transforms into a more gentle piece about different experiences with a lot of experiences and perceptions I could closely relate to.
  The Trayvon Martin killing and subsequent Zimmerman trial is the instance in my mind that stands out as the first public race-related issue I was old enough to live through and witness the vastly different opinions of. Certainly both the deaths of Trayvon Martin and Michael Brown are events that most people in America who are old enough to remember the instances can also remember the varying reactions of the people around them to the incidents as well as their own reactions.

9/9 "Sex, Drugs, Disasters, and the Extinction of Dinosaurs" by Gould
One tactic Gould uses a lot is to foreshadow in a sense. He sets up three competing hypotheses, but spoils that two of them are unscientific and don't hold water before diving into the details of them.

9/12 Brian Doyle short stories
1. "Dawn and Mary"
"(we heard pop-pop-pop, said one of the staffers later)"
This inclusion at the end of the first paragraph immediately grabbed my attention. I don't know if there's a word for this kind of tactic, it seems adjacent to foreshadowing, but is far more obvious to the reader since they know that whatever happened is something people will all be talking about in the future.

"She had two daughters. Her husband had proposed to her five times before she'd finally said yes, and that had been married for ten years."
An extremely concise way to introduce a character and have the raeder immediately care about her, especially since her life is already in danger. Mary's paragraph is similar.

"You and I have been in that hallway."
wow

2. "His Last Game"
This story (and especially the first few paragraphs) made liberal use of run-on sentences with only commas for punctuation. In my opinion, this tactic effectively enforces the stream of consciousness style.

3. "The First Sports Team I Remember"
Again Doyle starts the story with an excessively long run-on sentence that draws the reader in to his meandering style of rambling about a topic.

9/13
Although I also adored "His Last Game," Doyle's "Dawn and Mary" is the most memorable short story I've read in a long time, especially considering how much impact the story has over such a short length. Doyle introduces Dawn with: "She had two daughters. Her husband had proposed to her five times before she'd finally said yes, and that had been married for ten years." His choice to condense Dawn's life into a single obituary-like paragraph did more to make me care about Dawn as a character than some books or movies were able to do with a full backstory and dialogue. Mary's characterization is similarly concise, the only reason I found it less effective was because it happens just after Dawn so pulling the same trick twice wasn't quite as memorable. 
I think Doyle's choice to introduce the characters only after the setting of a school shooting was established also enhanced the story in a way that I find difficult to describe. If the first pair of paragraphs was swapped with the next pair (introducing Dawn and Mary), the story would make just as much sense, but would've had a far less impact on my reading experience. Perhaps the reason is that the current structure makes it implicitly clear how Dawn and Mary never asked to be in their situation, they just happened to be people around when the opportunity to do something selfless and heroic happened.
Finally, Doyle hits the reader with "You and I have been in that hallway," which suddenly brings the reader into the reality of the situation and forces them to consider what they would do if such a shooting happened when they were in school. After setting the scene at a school shooting in Connecticut, I assumed the story was about Sandy Hook and that knowledge made it easier to have a more objective, outside approach to the story; this sentence broke down that barrier between me and what happens to the characters.

9/28 "On Dumpster Diving" - Lars Eighner
1. When I first started reading I expected a more direct narrative on the state of mind Eighner was in while being homeless, but he instead writes almost exclusively about how to efficiently pick through a dumpster, and only sprinkles in his thoughts about homelessness itself.
2. I thought a lot about waste and logistics while reading. There's plenty of excess that gets thrown away rather than donated to someone else because of social stigma or because it's not easy to do. I imagine most restaurants would be okay with their trash instead feeding the hungry, but they don't because they don't want a line of homeless outside their restaurant at all times.
3. In my opinion, Eighner's biggest strength is his ability to lead the reader to conclusions without stating them directly. For example, "homeless people are still people" and "I went to college and still wound up homeless" were both clearly conveyed without being explicitly stated. In fact, these ideas would've felt less compelling if the reader wasn't organically led to them.

10/5 "Small Change" Malcolm Gladwell
TODO reading jounal
The most interesting thing Eighner does in "On Dumpster Diving" is to focus on the contents of dumpsters rather than the more abstract concepts of poverty and homelessness. Instead, the reader is left to infer much of the mental state of Eighner and his homeless partners from small snippets of conversation and thoughts in between sections of digging through trash. This serves to draw the reader in by de-familiarizing them by showing them a different way to look at garbage.
Gladwell, on the other hand, directly attacks the paradigm by providing specific counterarguments to his overall point and discussing them at length (as an aside, Gladwell's paper reads much like a modern philosophy paper, using counterexample + rebuttle pairs). This technique initially confuses the reader a bit as the counterarguments are more familiar, but Gladwell's distinction of hard and soft ties prove to be a superior model for social motivation throughout the essay.

10/12 "self-esteem"
TODO reading journal
1. I'll be honest, I didn't find Slater's essay to be all that compelling. Of course, I don't mean that I think it's "objectively" bad or anything, but rather my personal reading experience wasn't all that great. The times in my life when my self-esteem wasn't the highest didn't cause me to magically become self-destructive or violent, so I was already on board with Slater's conclusion (self esteem correlating to happiness seems reasonable in my mind, but low self esteem alone causing violence and drug abuse I find ridiculous). Much of the beginning of the essay felt like she just strung together a list of studies and thoughts of psychologists and essayists on the subject. As a scientist I appreciate a good study that challenges preconceived notions, but as a reader I wasn't really engaged and didn't feel like I learned anything new. 
With that being said, I found the most interesting part by far to be when Slater was considering if there should be treatment for having too high of a self-esteem. This idea I found completely novel, and Slater effectively expands on the idea by exploring what such a treatment might look like, and I spent a lot of time wondering how you'd even convince people to seek such treatment without a court order.
2. I think the form of this essay is pretty similar to Gladwell's essay, but where Slater's references to what other people think felt (to me, at least) pretty mechanical and not very engaging, Gladwell gave vivid descriptions of events before and after the rise of social media that drew me in and made me imagine how I might act under such circumstances.

10/19
TODO reading journal
1. Gatto's essay relies mostly on personal experience to convince the reader that public schooling trains obedience and conformity rather than growth and curiosity. Kipnis, on the other hand, uses almost no personal experience in her essay, instead focusing on shared experience and assumes the reader knows the societal expectations about love in order to rationally examine those norms.
2. Kipnis reframes committing adultery as a logical re-examination of the societal contract between personal desire and societal gratification. I found this technique to be a refreshingly interesting and logical take on a normally indefensible action, and I hope to use something similar in my own essay.
3. I have several smaller ideas that might not be able to be fleshed out into a full essay, but also I'm thinking about writing about family, funerals, or social hierarchy.
