    Startup-Investors/Finances Social Media

1.0 Scope and Project Vision/Mission
    The Startup-Investors/Finances Social Media (Work in Progress Title) allows Entrepreneurs (primarily focused on Startup companies and businesses) and Investors to connect with each other. Each account made on the website is identified as being either an investor OR a business/entrepreneur. If a “Entrepreneur” account is created only investors are shown on the main page. If an “Investor” account is created, only Entrepreneurs are shown on the main page. Both accounts have the ability to filter accounts to fit various criteria (Elaborated more in 1.1 Functions). The main goal of this product, as stated previously, is to connect entrepreneurs and investors so that negotiations between the two can commence.

 1.1 Functions
Sign-up: Initial sign up divided into investor, entrepreneur, and guest accounts. Asks for name, email, password, and company website to create a user.
Approval Process: New accounts must go through an approval process. Users must then verify their email, and then, if they are an Entrepreneur, must wait 24-48 hours to be vetted by one of the team members before they can use the website. If the account is an investor, they must provide proof of being an accredited investor through their country's financial laws, with this process also taking 24-48 hours.
Tutorial: show where/how to manage your profile, search/filter for matching investors/entrepreneurs
Creating a profile: Update profile information with specific information of what the company does, how much money is it looking for, and what the end goal is, or what you are looking for in a company as an investor and how much are you willing to invest in a company.
Filters:
Entrepreneur: investment limit 
Investor: industry, investment needed, equity, location, expected growth, current and past sales(if any)
Chat/Message Board: Here both parties, the investor and the entrepreneur, will be able to make pitches and negotiate deals. The entrepreneur can seek funding from an investor in return for equity stake.
My Network: Users can connect with each other to help each other to find the best investor-entrepreneur match.
Rating System: If an entrepreneur and investor negotiate, they will be able to rate the other based on their experience, regardless if they made a deal.
Secondary Functions (May or may not be implemented, dependent on time)
Support Page: Includes FAQ and other help pages on various subjects, such as setting up your profile, resetting passwords, etc.
User and Sponsored Guides: Pages showing good practices on how to attract investors, and make wise investment decisions. There will be a “sponsored” tab with the team’s general recommendations, as well as a forum populated 

 1.2 Performance 
    We believe this application can change the nature of investing through matching algorithms and filters. We are confident that our website traffic will yield a significant increase in negotiations worldwide and provide easy accessibility for companies that fly under the radar. Part of the success relies heavily on attracting a high volume of traffic, so that more and more negotiations and “hits” on our websites are done.

 1.3 Limitations
Entrepreneurs don’t have access to see other entrepreneurs, and investors don’t have access to see other investors.
Investment deals cannot be made for legal reasons, the app is only for negotiation between parties.

2.0 Tasks and Assignments
Website GUI
Database system for account management
Profile Management
Search/filter function for investors to find business
Report function 

3.0 Resources and People
 3.1 Hardware
Personal computer per member
Server for deployment
 3.2 Software
Java Backend
HTML/CSS Frontend
Database Manager
JDBC (Java Database Connectivity)
 3.3 People/Roles
Quinn Vierick
Project Leader
SQL Database and Backend Development
Adam Karl
Logins, QA & testing, filter functionality
Lucas Leiby
HTML/JS/Accessibility Tester/Documenting
Sebastian Marcano-Jimenez
Frontend Development
Aaron Mathew
Backend Development, Documenting


